# nlp_portfolio_project
This was a Codecademy Pro Portfolio project aimed at practicing natural language processing (NLP) skills. No specific instructions as to how to complete the project were provided by Codecademy, other than to use some of the NLP tools that I had learned about in lessons along the skill path. I chose to investigate the topics of text messages sent by people from Singapore, India, and the United States, to see what similarities and differences between the countries existed. I also built a Multinomial Naive Bayes supervised machine learning model which aimed to predict what country a person was from based on what they wrote in their text messages. In my investigation of text message topics I utilized TF-IDF, word embeddings, and n-gram analysis. I found that common text message topics included setting up meetings/get-togethers, planning phone calls, sending quick messages to loved ones, and reacting to events/messages/sent information. The Multinomial Naive Bayes model I built can readily distinguish texts from Singaporeans from texts from other countries in the data set, but had a much harder time distinguishing amongst those other countries. Additional findings can be found in the included Jupyter Notebook file.

The project itself was done with Python 3.0 and Jupyter Notebook. I used the data set "clean_nus_sms.csv" as provided to me by Codecademy, and utilized Pandas, Seaborn, Matplotlib, re, Gensim, collections, NLTK, and scikit-learn. The Jupyter Notebook file containing my analysis is included as "nlp_portfolio_project_MAC.ipynb."

The data set used in this project was provided by Codecademy; it is the National University of Singapore SMS Corpus data set, made publicly available by The National University of Singapore. It was compiled by Tao Chen and Min-Yen Kan, as detailed in the following publication: <br>Tao Chen and Min-Yen Kan (2013). Creating a Live, Public Short Message Service Corpus: The NUS SMS Corpus. Language Resources and Evaluation, 47(2)(2013), pages 299-355. Paper URL: https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs10579-012-9197-9
<br> I have included the data set provided by Codecademy in this repository; its file name is "clean_nus_sms.csv."
